you've probably heard the line this time
is different well in this case I
actually agree you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you
we've seen the previous Cycles where
companies will hire people conditions
get a little bit tough they lay people
off and then eventually hire back more
and more as long as that company is
growing this time around however the
situation will be different and I'm
going to explain why in today's video
You're going to hear about the
bankruptcies that have been rising the
companies that are affected by this and
the layoffs that have taken place but at
the end of the video I'm going to show
you why this situation is very different
than the previous cycle of 2020 or the
prior cycle of 2008 something's going on
here and I want to show this to you
right now chapter 11 bankruptcy filings
in the US have skyrocketed since the FED
started raising rates and of course I
talked about this in my original book
back in 2012 what published in 2012 and
I said basically as soon as you started
increasing interest rates you run into
the problems we have too much debt all
this um you know that's just the way it
goes and that's what we're dealing with
November saw 700 chapter 11 commercial
bankruptcy filings the most since 2018
and guess what happened in 2018 yes a
rate hike cycle the rate of new
bankruptcies have started to accelerate
in recent months okay um certainly if
rates stay high this becomes a problem
but now that they've signaled they want
to cut rates yeah know maybe it slows
that down to some degree but anyway
that's where we are at it's not at the
levels of the financial crisis let's
keep that in mind but it has accelerated
no doubt what was different about 2020
was that you know moratoriums you had
the PPP loans you had super low interest
rates cash was being thrown out there
and so there was every reason for these
numbers to be depressed but what did we
find regardless a lot of small
businesses lost um the everything they
lost everything oh you're not essential
you're gone oh here's here's a little
bit of cash here's a little bit of cash
look the store owner say I just want to
stay open I I just want to be open I
just want to work I just want people to
come into my store my customers they
can't come and see me yeah here's a
little bit of
cash and that's what happened and that's
why 2020 was an interesting year look
don't worry because the big businesses
the big box stores oh they were able to
remain open and so we have a bigger I
should say growing divide in between the
big businesses and the small or the
halves and the Have Nots and the rich
and the poor and this happens in so many
different categories that happens to be
just one so we have this next companies
that are laying off you will notice it's
not just one sector or another okay okay
it's it's fairly widespread GM to lay
off 1300 Michigan workers as vehicles
and production then we have this you
could see news media Outlet slash record
2700 jobs in 2023 with more expected
many different uh media type of
organizations Etsy stock Falls after the
company lays off 11% of its staff citing
very challenging environment Etsy online
store you would think hey online sales
were up Etsy generally you know you do
hear about people buying things there
and so on stock not doing as good as it
was what do they do they lay people off
that's the reason that's the connection
between Wall Street and Main Street they
are disconnected let's be honest about
that but if the stocks start to come
down if tomorrow let's just say nobody
wanted to invest in meta Facebook the
stock starts to drop what do they do
they lay people off they lay people off
and guess what they did when their stock
came down significantly they laid a
whole bunch of people off it's not a
surprise that's what they do by the way
when they started to lay people off at
least after a little while the stock
started going up of course of course
everyone was pointing to oh Zuckerberg's
talking talking about the metaverse oh
this is not this company is not
investable I can't believe it and what
happened happened it turned around all
it took were thousands and thousands of
people to be laid off so that's that
City Group offers partial early bonuses
to encourage staff departures also known
as firing people okay or is it the
furlows that we heard about in 2020 oh
it's just a furry Furlow it's not a
layoff it's not a fire oh no it's a it's
a furry
Furlow if you remember that I
was just bewildered by that in 2020 but
anyway every article was using that term
just sad to see the propaganda but
anyway basically uh what are they doing
here oh they're saying okay we want to
fire you here's a here's a bunch of
money just leave on your own okay con
this has been Happ I know what personal
circumstances where this is going on a
lot actually so that's that consumer
prices in the aggregate are still Rising
though not nearly as quickly as a year
ago most groceries still cost more than
they did a year ago so do most services
such as restaurant meals haircuts and
trips to the dentist housing costs the
biggest monthly expense for most
Americans still Rising both renters and
home buyers overall the price of
physical good uh Goods is flat in the
past year while the price of service is
up more than 5% you tell me
if the goods that you buy overall are
the same price they were last year maybe
you can pinpoint oh yeah the carrots or
the same price at the store I go to or
whatever but in general in general come
on everything is up now you you got to
look at it I mean there's year over year
all these they're all skewed because you
know maybe egg prices had a problem for
a while because of this or chicken was
that you got to kind of spread that out
and look at it overall let's be clear
from 2019 from 2018 into 2019 it was the
usual yeah it's inflation man it sucks
we moved into 2020 2021 2022 oh my
goodness it was climbing it seemed like
you know whether it's Canada US
Australia it seemed like you were in a
developing country where you know you
thought to yourself maybe I should buy
more of those beans cuz I think they're
going to be either in shortage or the
price is going to go up considerably so
I might as well buy it now that doesn't
you know historically doesn't happen
very often in Western countries and yet
what happened the developing nations
experienced that to to a great degree
and this has been going on so at the
same time we're having layoffs we're
having this weakness we're having the
bankruptcies the corporations and so on
we've got prices that are rising still
they printed money before they devalued
the currency before they're in
tightening cycle they're saying that
they're trying to take care of
everything and still prices are rising
not a good sign yeah you know the Euro
zone is likely in a recession according
to the
PMI but you
know it doesn't matter the stats don't
matter what matters is what we just
talked about a minute ago it's you know
what what prices do you pay can you
afford that I know that so many people
cannot afford their own circumstances
today and that is a sad thing to think
about you can't afford your rent you
can't afford your mortgage you can't
afford this and that and meanwhile what
are they doing are they doing anything
to help you of course not in fact it's
quite the opposite those in control want
to make sure that there is a small group
on the top controlling everything that
happens below and over time what you
will see is more and more people having
to live in dormatory style living okay
probably more for for young people and
then you have multigenerational homes
I'm not saying either one is bad if
people want to do that but we shouldn't
be forced into it there are some people
that would say look at 1970s 1970s one
person could afford the you know the
house the car the whole lifestyle one
one income and now today it's very
different oh oh but the excuse is well
the homes are much bigger
today regardless of what they are the
circumstances first of all the the plots
are probably smaller today if anything
so the actual total land
area I haven't seen the data on this but
I believe they're smaller okay because
the you know you see the lots are
getting squeezed in but regard it
doesn't matter the point is that you
know the average home the average salary
or Medan salary and things it's not
adding up it's not adding up and this is
going to be worse in a few years rather
than looking at it from today you think
it's going to get better oh no and so
you asked the
question what happens next cycle well
this is the problem oh great now debt
collectors are embracing AI too AI power
tools are helping collectors do things
like negotiate debts and predict
people's ability ility to
pay what about this GM is struggling
Cruise business to cut one quarter of
its
Workforce this is their uh self-driving
cars you have this and so if we want to
rebuild this is their self-driving cars
has an accident terrible and now what
they're saying okay we're going to Halt
we're going to stop and so we want to
build rebuild trust we want to make sure
that we can get this thing on the road
again look at it under Fire over Robo
taxi safety GM halt production of the
cruise driverless van it's not working
so not everything's in One Direction
okay Deo is looking to AI to help avoid
Mass layoffs in the future saying
basically look we got people but maybe
one area we need more people than the
other and we're going to use AI to help
us out on that so you don't necessarily
get to choose the job you want in the
career that you desire or that you went
to school for you spent all that money
got an all all that debt we got another
job for you listen look the floors need
some cleaning so how do you feel about
that that's what they're going to do and
McDonald's Taps Google Cloud to Super
siize analytics and Ai and so now your
Big Mac is going to be affected by
artificial intelligence it seems so the
point of this all of that is to show you
each and every industry is trying to
bring in some level of artificial
intelligence whether it's working or not
um but that's where we're going robotics
automation are taking over businesses
are implementing and they are spending
billions of dollars to make it happen in
the next cycle what goes on is that we
do not need as much human capital as we
did before Human
Resources we need the AI we need the
computer chips we need the technology
artificial intelligence what can we do
with it let's hire more of that not
people and so you better be aware of
this there's more inflation there's more
difficult times and there's less need
for a lot of jobs so watch out what kind
of situation that you are in personally
with your career look at it be honest
with yourself and I think that uh for a
lot of people they better be aware of
this look if you want to be able to
actually be ahead of the curve to get
the information that is just not
available out to the public it's hard
for me to do on the videos I try my best
but directly connecting with me is the
best way to do that every single week I
do two live sessions okay there's a
Friday session for people that are into
the financial side there's a Sunday
session for people who are building
mostly an e-commerce business this is
the uh you know basically we talk about
stock market we talk about what's going
on with Investments you bring me your
questions I give you the new gpts that
are come out I talk about this as often
as I can I am trying to give everybody
the tools and the resources helping
people to do what they can if you
interested in that the link will be
below all the details are listed there
and of course as always if you
appreciate the information hit that
thumbs up button I want to see you back
here tomorrow so we can get into the
latest and greatest take care